Installation order

1) R
2) R Studio
3) Git

Video 1
In this series of videos,
we will describe how to install the software tools that we
consider the main productivity tools.
To motivate the use of these tools, we will also
provide brief illustrations of how we use them.
We will install the following software tools.
First, we'll install R, the programming language we use to analyze data.
Second, we'll install RStudio, the integrated desktop
environment we use to edit, organize, and test our R scripts.
Third, we will install Git.
This is the version control system we use
to keep track of changes made to our code
and to sync local copies of our code with copies hosted on GitHub.
For Windows users, when you install Git, we
will also install Git Bash, a piece of software
that emulates Unix on Windows machines.
We will also show how to open a GitHub account
and how to sync it with RStudio.

Video 2

RStudio is an interactive desktop environment,
but it is not R, nor does it include R when you download and install it.
Therefore to use RStudio, we first need to install
R. You can download our from the Comprehensive R Archive
Network or CRAN.
You can search for CRAN on your browser like this.
Once at the CRAN download page for your operating system,
you will have several choices.
You want to install the base subdirectory.
This installs the basic packages you need to get going.
We will later learn how to install other needed packages from within R,
rather than from this web page.
Now click on the link to the latest version to start the download process.
If you're using Chrome, for example, you'll
see at the bottom of your browser, a tab that
shows you the progress of the download.
Once the installer file downloads, you can go ahead and click on that tab
to start the installation process.
Other browsers may be different, so you'll
have to find where they store downloaded files and click on them
to get the process started.
Once the installation process starts, you
can click through all the different choices to finish the installation.
We highly recommend you select all the default choices,
even when you get an ominous warning like this one.
If you're asked to select the language, consider
that it will be easier to follow this course if you select English.
Continue selecting the default, and you'll eventually finish and install R.
Congratulations, you've installed R, although we highly
recommend that beginners use R through RStudio, you can use R without RStudioYou can start it like any other program.
If you follow the default installations on a Windows machine,
a shortcut will appear on your desktop, which you can just double click
to start R. On a Mac, R will be on the applications folders,
just like any other program.
If you start R without RStudio, you'll see an R console
in which you can start typing commands.
This is what it looks like.
But we will be much more productive using an editor developed for coding,
such as the one provided by RStudio.
In the next video, we demonstrate how to install RStudio.

Video 3

To install RStudio you you
can start by searching for RStudio on your browser.
You should find the RStudio website this way.
Once there, click on Download RStudio.
This will give you several options.
For what we do in this course, it is more than
enough to use the free desktop version.
Once you select this option, it will take you
to a page in which the operating system options are provided.
Once again, click on the link showing your operating system.
Once the installation file is downloaded, click on the downloaded
file to start the installation process.
We recommend clicking Yes on all the defaults.
On the Mac, there are fewer clicks.
You basically drag and drop the RStudio icon into the application folder.
Congratulations.
You've installed RStudio.

Video 4

Now that you've installed R and RStudio,
we're going to show you an example of how you use it.
You can start RStudio in Windows by going to the Start menu
and searching for RStudio, and on the Mac, RStudio will be an application.
You can find it in the application folder.
Now for the Mac users, to avoid using the mouse to open RStudio or actually
any other program, you can hit command spacebar
to open the spotlight search and type RStudio into that search bar
and then hit enter.
This will start RStudio.

When you start RStudio for the first time, you will see three panes.
The left lane shows you the R console.
On the right, the top pane includes three tabs,
while the bottom pane shows you five tabs, file, plots, packages, help,
and viewer.
Here's what it looks like.
You can click on the different tabs to move across the different features.
Now let's start coding.
Let's start writing a new script.
To start a new script, you can click on file, then new file, then R script.
This starts a new pane on the left, and it is here
where you can start writing your script.
Note that we use the mouse to do that.
Many tasks we perform with the mouse can be
achieved with a combination of keystrokes instead.
These keyboard versions of performing tasks are referred to as key bindings.
For example, we just showed you how to use a mouse to start a new script.
But you can also use a key binding.
On Windows, it's control shift N. On the Mac,
it's command shift N. Although in this tutorial,
we often show how to use a mouse, we highly
recommend that you memorize key bindings for the operations you use the most.
RStudio actually provides a useful cheat sheet
with the most widely used commands.
You can get it from RStudio directly like this,
and this is what the cheat sheet looks like.
You might want to keep this handy so you can look up key bindings
when you find yourself performing repetitive point and click tasks.